Sean Morton
ME333
Homework 7

Chapter 24.5, 24.7, and 24.8. Make a demo video for 24.8 for the Demonstration assignment.

_____

24.5 Plotting Data in MATLAB
Now that you have MATLAB communication working, you will build on your code from
Section 24.3 by sending your controller’s reference and sensed ADC data to MATLAB for
plotting. This information will help you see how well your controller is working, allowing you
to tune the PI gains empirically.

Nick mentioned that he might want us to do this in Python instead. I'll confirm with him
in class--seemed like he wanted us to use pyserial and matplotlib

_____

24.7 Reading the ADC

1. Read the ADC value in your ISR, just before the if (StoringData) line of code. The
value should be called adcval, so it will be stored in ADCarray. Turn in a MATLAB plot
showing the measured ADCarray and the REFArray. You may wish to use manual sampling
and automatic conversion to read the ADC.

_____

24.8 PI Control

Now you will implement the PI controller. Change makeWaveform so that center is 500 and the
amplitude A is 300, making a square wave swinging between 200 and 800. This waveform is
now the desired brightness of the LED, in ADC counts. Use the adcval read from the ADC
and the reference waveform as inputs to the PI controller. Call u the output of the PI controller.

The output u may be positive or negative, but the PWM duty cycle can only be between 0 and
PR3. If we treat the value u as a percentage, we can make it centered at 50% by adding 50 to
the value, then saturate it at 0% and 100%, by the following code:

Finally we must convert the control effort unew into a value in the range 0 to PR3 so that it can
be stored in OC1RS:

OC1RS = (unsigned int) ((unew/100.0) * PR3);

We recommend that you deIne the integral of the control error, Eint, as a global static
volatile int. Then reset Eint to zero in main every time a new Kp and Ki are received from
MATLAB. This ensures that this new controller starts fresh, without a potentially large error
integral from the previous controller.

1. Using your MATLAB interface, tune your gains Kp and Ki until you get good tracking of
the square wave reference. Turn in a plot of the performance.